Docs 5646 improve navigability of policies section pa (#140)
mulesoft/docs-api-manager: modules/ROOT/pages/policies-compare-mule3-and-mule4.adoc

= Policies and Mule Versions
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:keywords: policy, custom, ootb, offline

In Mule versions 3 and 4, the policies remain the same, with a few exceptions. The following section explains the similarities and differences in these Mule versions.

> Policies in Mule 4

Reviewer: There are some things missing in the table that are key differences as well:

- Mule 4 supports versioning of policies
- Mule 4 custom policies are uploaded to Exchange
- Mule 4 introduces better isolation between policies and between policies and the application
- Mule 4 introduces better error handling. 

@balbifm @mtqp  can you think of more that are not listed below?

Reviewer 2: Just adding another bullet you mention in a following comment:
- All policies are non-blocking in Mule 4.
- Rate Limit, Rate Limit SLA and Spike Control can be ordered anywhere in the chain.

Reviewer 3: Outbound policies introduced in Mule 4

Author: Done! Thanks!

Classloader isolation exists between the application, the runtime and connectors, and policies. To fulfill the isolation requirement, policies are self-contained and packaged to include libraries needed for execution, similar to an application. Additionally, certain changes to the packaging, size, and scope of a policy are introdcued in Mule 4.

[%header,cols="40a,50a,50a"]
|===
| Component | Mule 3 | Mule 4 
|           | Uses MEL expressions | Uses DataWeave 2.0 

> | Policies distribution | Policies cannot be distributed outside of runtime | You can distribute policies outside of the runtime, which simplifies upgrades 

Reviewer: What does distributed means in this case? seems confusing. @balbifm do you remember what this meant?

Reviewer 3: Not really, where does this come from?

Author: I can't recall why I added that, but I guess what it means is that you can't implement policies outside of runtime. Does that make sense? Or should I remove it?

> | Policies  |           | All policies are non-blocking (what does this mean?)  

Reviewer: There is a question mark here:

For Policies in Mule 3: Not all policies were non-blocking because Mule didn't fully support non-blocking processing for all its componetns.

For Policies in Mule 4: All policies are non-blocking. 

The reason why non-blocking is important is because it improves performance.

Author: Done! Thanks!

> | Policy execution | All polciies can be reordered and executed first | All policies, except CORS, can be reordered 

Reviewer: Typo in polciies. In Mule 3 not all policies could be reordered, throttling , rate limiting and CORS were always executed first. Mule 4 allows for all policies, except CORS, to be ordered.

Author: Done! Thanks!

| Resource Level Policy Support | Restricted to RAML-based APIs | Support extended to HTTP-based API, along with RAML-based APIs 

> | What is the component here?  |  | classloader isolation exists between application, runtime, connectors and policies 

Reviewer: This line is incomplete: 

Component: Class-loading isolation. For Mule 3, no class-loading isolation is supported. For Mule 4: what is currently there.

Benefit: see this doc: https://docs.mulesoft.com/mule-runtime/4.2/about-classloading-isolation

Author: Done! Thanks!

> | Policy change | Throttling | Renamed to Spike Control with added functionality 

Reviewer 2: Spike Control is **not** (Throttling+feature). It is actually creating a new (from scratch) algorithm based on the sliding window mechanism focused exclusively on reducing spikes in traffic and protecting a Mule Runtime instance.

Author: Done! Thanks!

> | Authentication policies | Basic Authentication: Simple, based on the simple technique for enforcing access control to web resources | Basic Authentication: Simple and Basic Authentication: LDAP for LDAP configurations 

Reviewer: I don't think this is correct, Mule 3 supported Simple and with LDAP, the difference is that you had to configure the Security Provider as a different policy, whereas in Mule 4 that policy no longer exist and it's configured as part of Simple and LDAP. 

I would change this line to have 

| Authentication policies | HTTP Basic Authentication policy depended on the Simple Security Manager or LDAP Security Manager policies | Simple Basic Authentication and LDAP Basic Authentication policies include Security Manager configuration |

Author: Done! Thanks!

> | Rate Limiting policy | The policy does not share the quota among cluster nodes | The policy can share the quota among cluster nodes, based on configuration 

Reviewer: Mule 3 comment is incorrect: the policy can share the quota between cluster nodes, but it's not configurable. 

For Mule 4, you have added functionality and capabilities that can be optionally configured. 

Added functionality: The ability to configure an identifier to provide better flexibility. 
Capabilities that can be optionally configured: 
- Headers being returned (Expose Headers checkbox)
- Clusterizable

Author: Done! Thanks!

> | Policy configuration |  If you upgrade APIs from the Jul 2017 to Nov 2017, the security manager setup information is no longer required. The policy incorporates the information. Header propagation no longer occurs by default. You can configure header propagation for token enforcement and rate limiting policies by checking the Expose Headers checkbox. 

Reviewer: I would have the security manager setup in the basic authentication section. 

Shouldn't the expose headers be also added for each policy instead of in this individual row? If it's in this row, there are more policies that have the expose headers checkbox, such as rate limiting. @balbifm what others?

Reviewer 2: I believe those were the Federation policies but can't remember if there were others.

Author: Added this information for Mule 3. What to add for Mule 4?

> | Custom Policies | | Powerful engine for building custom policies, using the XML schema language

Reviewer: There are other advantages to custom policies:

@balbifm please chime in to correct me or add:

- Improved error handling
- Support for all Mulesoft components
- Isolation between policies and application

What else?

Reviewer 3: * Outbound policies
* Custom policies can package additional libraries

Author: Done! Thanks!

|===

> == See Also

Reviewer: What links are in the See Also section?

Author: Nothing for now. Thanks!

= Policies and Mule Versions
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:keywords: policy, custom, ootb, offline

In Mule versions 3 and 4, the policies remain the same, with a few exceptions. The following section describes the similarities and differences in these Mule versions.

// Policies in Mule 4
// Classloader isolation exists between the application, the runtime and connectors, and policies. To fulfill the isolation requirement, policies are self-contained and packaged to include libraries needed for execution, similar to an application. Additionally, certain changes to the packaging, size, and scope of a policy are introduced in Mule 4.

[%header,cols="40a,50a,50a"]
|===
| Feature | Mule 3 | Mule 4 
|           | Uses MEL expressions | Uses DataWeave 2.0 

> | Policies distribution | Policies cannot be distributed outside of runtime | Policies can be distributed outside of the runtime, which simplifies upgrades 

Reviewer: I would change this entire line for:

| Policy resources | External dependencies such as libraries or resources can't be included in the policy and must be available in the runtime | Policies can package resource eliminating the dependency with the runtime |

@balbifm what do you think of the content?

Reviewer 3: Yes, not sure if we are talking about libraries or release cadence in the original line

Author: Done! Thanks!

> | Policies  | Partial non-blocking processing implemented for policies | * All policies are non-blocking to improve performance

Reviewer: We can replace it for 

| Policies performance | Partial non-blocking processing implemented for policies | All policies implement a non-blocking processing strategy |

| Versioning | Policies don't support proper versioning | Versioning is supported and enforced |

Author: Done! Thanks!

> * Versioning of policies is introduced

Reviewer: I added the comment above

Author: Done! Thanks!

> | Policy execution | Throttling, Rate Limiting, and CORS policies executed first. Other policies can be reordered | All policies, except CORS, can be reordered 

Reviewer: What do you think about replacing "Policy execution" with "Policy order execution"

Author: Good suggestion. Changed it to "Policy execution order".

| Resource Level Policy Support | Restricted to RAML-based APIs | Support extended to HTTP-based API, along with RAML-based APIs 
| Class loader isolation  | No class loader isolation supported | Class loader isolation exists between application libraries, extensions, and runtime libraries 
| Policy change | Throttling | Added the Spike Control policy, which uses an algorithm based on the sliding window mechanism to focus exclusively on reducing spikes in traffic and protecting a Mule Runtime instance. 
| Authentication policies | HTTP Basic Authentication policy depended on the Simple Security Manager or LDAP Security Manager policies | Simple Basic Authentication and LDAP Basic Authentication policies include Security Manager configuration

> | Rate Limiting policy | The policy can share the quota between cluster nodes. Quota not configurable. | * Provides the ability to configure an identifier for better flexibility. Capabilities that can be optionally configured include:

Reviewer: For Mule 3 it should be: "If there is a cluster configured, the quota is shared between the nodes"

Author: Done! Thanks!

Author: Done!

* Ability to return headers (Expose Headers checkbox)
* Ability to Clusterize the quota 

> | Policy configuration | Header propagation occurs be default  | * Header propagation no longer occurs by default. * Header propagation can be configured for Token Enforcement, Federation, and Rate Limiting policies by checking the Expose Headers checkbox.

Reviewer: ".. can be configured for Token Enforcement, Rate Limiting and other default policies that set information on headers and offer the capability to propagate it"

Author: Done! Thanks!

Author: Done! Thanks!

> | Custom Policies | Not available in Mule 3| * Powerful engine for building custom policies, using the XML schema language

Reviewer 3: What is the thing that is not available in Mule 3?

Author: Custom Policies

> | Custom Policies | Not available in Mule 3| * Powerful engine for building custom policies, using the XML schema language

Reviewer: For mule 3, "Support to build custom policy templates based on XML schema language"

Reviewer: For reference, @balbifm we should review the text on custom policies for mule 3 and mule 4: `Powerful engine for building custom policies, using the XML schema language`

Author: Done! Thanks!

Author: Done! Thanks!

* improved error handling
* Support for all Mulesoft components
* Isolation between policies and application
* Can be applied to outbound requests, coming back from the backend services
* Can package additional libraries

> * Policies can be uploaded to Exchange

Reviewer: Policies can be it's actually policies are uploaded to exchange and therefore support for versioning is now included.

Author: Done!

> * Better isolation between policies and the application

Reviewer: We should add after the table:

The implementation and experience around custom policies is one of the major changes between Mule 3 and Mule 4, please refer to the documentation for each version depending on the one you are using. 

And on see also:

https://docs.mulesoft.com/api-manager/2.x/policy-mule3-custom-policies
https://docs.mulesoft.com/api-manager/2.x/policies-custom-landing-page

Reviewer: For you to know and have visibility, we are working on a migration tool for custom policies and proxies as well, once we have that in place we will update the documentation to help customers that have custom policies built in mule 3 and want to upgrade to mule 4.

Author: Done! Thanks!

> = Policies and Mule Versions

Reviewer 4: More precisely, "Comparison of Policy Features Between Mule 3 and Mule 4"

However, the items listed in the Features column are not all worded as a feature: an item or capability. Try to make the entries in the Features column parallel grammatically.

I also do not understand the empty table cells. If there is no text entry, please supply "Not applicable."

Author: Fixed! Thanks!

ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:keywords: policy, custom, ootb, offline

> In Mule versions 3 and 4, the policies remain the same, with a few exceptions. The following section describes the similarities and differences in these Mule versions.

Reviewer 4: I suggest replacing this these sentences as follows:

"With the exceptions of <name them here, if there are truly just a few>, the policies for Mule runtime engine versions 3 and 4 are similar."
OR
"Although they are similar, the policies for Mule runtime engine versions 3 and 4 have some differences."

We do not have to refer to "the following section": GLOBALLY avoid textual self-reference in all writing.

Author: Added this instead "Policies in Mule versions 3 and differ based on how they are implemented and the level of support provided."

[%header,cols="40a,50a,50a"]
|===
| Feature | Mule 3 | Mule 4 

> |           | Uses MEL expressions | Uses DataWeave 2.0 

Reviewer 4: Why is Feature empty?

Author: Fixed!

> |           | Uses MEL expressions | Uses DataWeave 2.0 

Reviewer: The name of the feature is missing, it should be "Expression Language"

Author: Done! Thanks!

> | Policy resources | External dependencies, such as libraries or resources cannot be included in the policy and must be available in the runtime | Policies can package resources, eliminating the dependency with the runtime. |

Reviewer 4: If the first column is Feature, and we are referring to policy feature, do we have to repeat "policy" in the first-column entries?
```suggestion
| External resources | Libraries and other external resources cannot be included in the policy and must be available in the runtime | Policies can package resources, eliminating dependency on the runtime. |
```

Author: Removed! Thanks!

> | Policies performance | Partial non-blocking processing implemented for policies | All policies implement a non-blocking processing strategy |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| Performance | Partial nonblocking processing | Full nonblocking processing
```

Author: Fixed! Thanks!

> | Versioning | Policies do not support proper versioning | Versioning is supported and enforced |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| Versioning | Not supported | Supported and enforced |
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> | Policy execution order | Throttling, Rate Limiting, and CORS policies executed first. Other policies can be reordered | All policies, except CORS, can be reordered 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| Execution order | Throttling, rate limiting, and CORS executed first.  | CORS executed first.
```

Author: Implemented partially! Other changes don't apply. Thanks!

> | Resource Level Policy Support | Restricted to RAML-based APIs | Support extended to HTTP-based API, along with RAML-based APIs 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| Resource-level support | Restricted to RAML-based APIs | RAML-based APIs and HTTP-based APIs 
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> | Class loader isolation  | No class loader isolation supported | Class loader isolation exists between application libraries, extensions, and runtime libraries 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| Class loader isolation  | Not supported | Supported between application libraries, extensions, and runtime libraries 
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> | Policy change | Throttling | Added the Spike Control policy, which uses an algorithm based on the sliding window mechanism to focus exclusively on reducing spikes in traffic and protecting a Mule Runtime instance. 

Reviewer 4: Clarify "policy change": what kind of change?
```suggestion
| Policy change | Throttling | Spike Control
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> | Authentication policies | HTTP Basic Authentication policy depended on the Simple Security Manager or LDAP Security Manager policies | Simple Basic Authentication and LDAP Basic Authentication policies include Security Manager configuration

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| Authentication | HTTP Basic Authentication based on the Simple Security Manager or LDAP Security Manager policies | Simple Basic Authentication and LDAP Basic Authentication, including Security Manager configuration
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> | Rate Limiting policy | The quota is shared between nodes for configured clusters. The policy can share the quota between cluster nodes. Quota not configurable. | * Provides the ability to configure an identifier for better flexibility. Capabilities that can be optionally configured include:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| Rate Limiting policy | Nonconfigurable quota shared between cluster nodes. | Configurable quota, including:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> | Rate Limiting policy | The quota is shared between nodes for configured clusters. The policy can share the quota between cluster nodes. Quota not configurable. | * Provides the ability to configure an identifier for better flexibility. Capabilities that can be optionally configured include:

Reviewer: On Mule 3: it's repeated, it should only say "The quota is shared between nodes for configured clusters"

Author: Done! Thanks!

> * Ability to return headers (Expose Headers checkbox)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Ability to expose headers
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> * Ability to Clusterize the quota 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Ability to clusterize the quota 
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> | Policy configuration | Header propagation occurs be default  | * Header propagation no longer occurs by default. * Header propagation can be configured for Token Enforcement, Rate Limiting, and other default policies that set information in headers and provide the capability to propagate it.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| Configuration | Header propagation occurs by default  | Header propagation no longer occurs by default but is configurable for token enforcement, rate limiting, and other default policies.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> | Custom Policies | Support to build custom policy templates based on XML schema language | * Powerful engine for building custom policies, using the XML schema language

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| Customization | Support to build custom policy templates based on XML schema language | * Powerful engine for building custom policies, using the XML schema language
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> * improved error handling

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Improved error handling
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> * Support for all Mulesoft components

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Support for all MuleSoft components
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

* Isolation between policies and application

> * Can be applied to outbound requests, coming back from the backend services

Reviewer 4: To what does this refer? WHAT "can be applied"?
```suggestion
* Can be applied to outbound requests
```

Author: Put in a question. Thanks!

Reviewer: Policies can be applied to outbound requests

> * Can package additional libraries

Reviewer 4: Ditto: WHAT can package?

Author: Done! Thanks!

Reviewer: Policies can package additional libraries

> * Support for versioning is now included as policies are uploaded to Exchange. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Versioning support when policies uploaded to Exchange
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> * Better isolation between policies and the application

Reviewer: This was already listed.

Author: Done! Thanks!

|===

> The implementation and user experience for custom policies differs considerably in versions Mule 3 and Mule 4. For more information about custom policies based on the Mule version you are using, see the respective Custom policies section for your version.

Reviewer 4: I would omit the first sentence.
The second sentence needs clarification: for more info about custom policies, see the Custom section for your version? Do you mean in our doc somewhere? Is there a separate custom topic in some Mule versioned doc?

Author: As provided in See Also. Thanks!

Reviewer: Yes, there is a specific documentation section for Mule 3 custom policies and another one for Mule 4 custom policies. 

Custom policies are one of the biggest differences between mule 3 and mule 4 and it will impact customers migrating their custom policies from one version to the other for instance (that is why the first sentence)
